[Music]
I'm a very lucky person I've been
privileged to see so much of our
beautiful earth and the people and
creatures that live on it and my passion
was inspired at the age of seven when my
parents first took me to Morocco at the
edge of the Sahara Desert now imagine a
little Brit somewhere that wasn't cold
and damp like home what an amazing
experience
and it made me want to explore more so
as a filmmaker I've been from one end of
the earth to the other trying to get the
perfect shot and to capture animal
behavior never seen before
and what's more I'm really lucky because
I get to share that with millions of
people worldwide now the idea of having
new perspectives of our planet and
actually being able to get that message
out gets me out of bed every day with a
spring in my step you might think that
it's quite hard to find new stories and
new subjects but new technology is
changing the way we can film it's
enabling us to get fresh new images and
tell brand new stories in nature's great
events a series for the BBC that I did
with David Attenborough we wanted to do
just that images of grizzly bears are
pretty familiar you see them all the
time you think but there's a whole side
to their lives that we hardly ever see
and it had never been filmed so what we
did we went to Alaska which is where the
Grizzlies rely on really high almost
inaccessible mountain slopes for their
Denning and the only way to film that is
a shoot from the air
[Music]
throughout Alaska and British Columbia
thousands of bear families are emerging
from their winter sleep
there is nothing to eat up here but the
conditions were ideal for hibernation
lots of snow in which to dig attend
[Music]
to find food mothers must lead their
cubs down to the coast where the snow
will already be melting
but getting down can be a challenge for
small cups
[Music]
[Applause]
these mountains are dangerous places but
ultimately the fate of these bear
families and indeed that of all bears
around the North Pacific depends on the
salmon I love that shot I always get
goosebumps every time with fear that was
filmed from a helicopter using a
gyro-stabilized camera and it's a
wonderful bit of gear because it's like
having a flying tripod crane and dolly
all rolled into one
but technology alone isn't enough to
really get the money shots it's down to
being in the right place at the right
time and that sequence was especially
difficult the first year we got nothing
we had to go back the following year all
the way back to the remote parts of
Alaska and we hung around with the
helicopter for two whole weeks
and eventually we got lucky the cloud
lifted the wind was still and even the
bear showed up and we managed to get
that magic moment for a filmmaker new
technology is an amazing tool but the
other thing that really really excites
me is when new species are discovered
now when I heard about one animal I knew
we had to get it from my next series
untamed America for National Geographic
in 2005 a new species of bat was
discovered in the cloud forests of
Ecuador and what was amazing about that
discovery is that it also solved the
mystery of what pollinated a unique
flower
it depends solely on the bat now the
series hasn't even aired yet so you're
the very first to see this see what you
think
the two blips nectar bath
a pool of delicious nectar lies at the
bottom of which flowers long flew but
how to reach it
necessity is the mother of evolution
[Music]
this two-and-a-half inch bag has a three
and a half inch tongue
[Music]
the longest relative to body length of
any mammal in the world if human he'd
have a nine-foot tongue we filmed it by
cutting a tiny little hole in the base
of the flower and using a camera that
could slow the action by 40 times so
imagine how quick that thing is in real
life now people often ask me where's
your favorite place on the planet and
the truth is I just don't have one there
are so many wonderful places but some
locations draw you back time and time
again and one remote location I first
went there as a backpacker
I've been back several times for filming
most recently for untamed Americas it's
the Altiplano in the high Andes of South
America and it's the most otherworldly
place I know but at 15,000 feet it's
tough it's freezing cold
and that thin air really gets you
sometimes it's hard to breathe
especially carrying all the heavy
groaning equipment and that pounding
head just feels like a constant hangover
but the advantage of that wonderful thin
atmosphere is that it enables you to see
the stars in the heavens with amazing
clarity have a look
[Music]
some 1500 miles south of the tropics
between Chile and Bolivia
the Andes completely change
it's called the Altiplano or high plains
a place of extremes extreme contrasts
when deserts freeze water spoil more
like Mars than Earth it seems just as
hostile to life
[Music]
the stars themselves
at 12,000 feet the dry thin air makes
for perfect stargazing
some of the world's astronomers have
telescopes nearby
but just looking up with the naked eye
you really don't need
[Music]
thank you so much for letting me share
some images of our magnificent wonderful
earth thank you for letting me share
that with you
[Music]